In this video,
you'll learn about
the common devices that make up
a network. Let's get started.
A hub is a network device that
broadcasts information to
every device on the network.
Think of a hub like a radio
tower that broadcasts
a signal to any radio tuned
to the correct frequency.
Another network
device is a switch.
A switch makes
connections between
specific devices on a
network by sending
and receiving data between them.
A switch is more
intelligent than a hub.
It only passes data to
the intended destination.
This makes switches
more secure than hubs,
and enables them to control
the flow of traffic
and improve network performance.
Another device that we'll
discuss is a router.
A router is a
network device that
connects multiple
networks together.
For example, if a
computer in one network
wants to send information to
a tablet on another network,
then the information will
be transferred as follows:
First, the information travels
from the computer to the router.
Then, the router reads the
destination address,
and forwards the data to the
intended network's router.
Finally, the receiving router
directs that information
to the tablet.
Finally, let's discuss modems.
A modem is a device
that connects
your router to the internet,
and brings internet
access to the LAN.
For example, if a computer from
one network wants to send
information to a
device on a network
in a different
geographic location,
it would be transferred
as follows:
The computer would send
information to the router,
and the router would then transfer
the information through
the modem to the internet.
The intended recipient's modem
receives the information,
and transfers it to the router.
Finally, the recipient's
router forwards
that information to the
destination device.
Network tools such
as hubs, switches,
routers, and modems
are physical devices.
However, many
functions performed by
these physical devices can be
completed by
virtualization tools.
Virtualization
tools are pieces of
software that perform
network operations.
Virtualization tools
carry out operations
that would normally be
completed by a hub, switch,
router, or modem,
and they are offered by
Cloud service providers.
These tools provide
opportunities for
cost savings and scalability.
You'll learn more about them later
in the
certificate program.
Now you've explored
some common devices
that make up a
network. Coming up,
you're going to learn more
about cloud computing,
and how networks can be
designed using cloud services.